---
layout: post
title: Devops
author: Faten Elhariry
categories: Devops
tags: AWS Devops
---
#### What is Devops? what is help us in ?
  there is no standar name for devops but it contains of two words development and opration, It breaks down the huge gap between those to team also Devops can be identified by CAMS 
    - C for culture: which mean how teams and peopel communicate in the live this the behaviour of coworker 
    - A for automation: it speed up the develoment opration by automatize the operation and process through configuration not only for tools but also  
      - people 
      - process 
      - `shortly it is people over process over tools`
    - M for Measurment: 
    - S for Sharing: the feedback loop that help in continous improve 

##### tips 
  - As you move forward in your DevOps implementation, always keep thinking about the whole system. Ask yourself, how can I build in more feedback loops? And see how you can contribute to creating an environment of experimentation and learning.

#### Elastic Load Balancing 
  automatically distributes incoming application traffic across multiple servers.
  - Balances load between two or more servers
  - Stands in front of a web server
  - Provides redundancy and performance
    - redundancy: means if server lock down the load balancer stop sending requests to it `If you lose a server, the load balancer will send requests to other working servers. This feature maintains continuous operations in an emergency.`
    - Performance: means the load balanacer distrubite the requests to the avaliable servers `If a server starts having issues or bottlenecks, the load balancer will add more servers to the pool of available servers. Auto scaling automatically adjusts capacity to maintain a steady state.`
  - Elastic Load Balancing works with EC2 Instances, containers, IP addresses, and Lambda functions.
  - You can configure Amazon EC2 instances to only accept traffic from a load balancer.
  1. **Application Load Balancer (ALB)**
    allows you to host the different API endpoints of your application on different servers. The load balancer then redirects the incoming HTTP/HTTP traffic to the suitable server based on the rules you specify in the configuration.
  2. **Network Load Balancer (NLB)**
    helps to balance the load on each individual server. Having an NLB becomes essential when your application requires handling millions of requests per second securely while maintaining ultra-low latencies. 
  3. **Classic Load Balancer (CLB)**
      

